ALL VERSIONS
[>552] SETPIN pin, cfg, target [,option] 
Will configure an external I/O pin. Refer to the chapter Using the I/O pins for a general description of the Pico's input/output capabilities. 
'pin' is the I/O pin to configure, 
'cfg' is the mode that the pin is to be set to and 
'option' is an optional parameter. 
'cfg' is a keyword and can be any one of the following:
OFF Not configured or inactive 
AIN Analog input (i.e. measure the voltage on the input).
ARAW Fast analog input returning a value between 0 and 1023.
DIN Digital input 
If 'option' is omitted the input will be high impedance If 'option' is the keyword "PULLUP" or "PULLDOWN" a constant current of about 50uA 
will be used to pull the input pin up or down to 3.3V. Due to a bug in the RP2350 chips it is recommended that a pulldown be implemented using a 8.2K or less resistor.
FIN Frequency input 'option' can be used to specify the gate time (the length of time used to count the input cycles). 
It can be any number between 10 ms and 100000 ms. 
The PIN() function will always return the frequency correctly scaled in Hz regardless of the gate time used. 
If 'option' is omitted the gate time will be 1 second. The pins can be GP6, GP7, GP8 or GP9 (can be changed with OPTION COUNT).
PIN Period input 'option' can be used to specify the number of input cycles to average the period measurement over. 
It can be any number between 1 and 10000. 
The PIN() function will always return the average period of one cycle correctly scaled in ms regardless of the number of cycles used for the average. 
If 'option' is omitted the period of just one cycle will be used. The pins can be GP6, GP7, GP8 or GP9 (can be changed with OPTION COUNT).
CIN Counting input 'option' can be used to specify which edge triggers the count and if any pullup or pulldown is enabled 2 specifies a falling edge with pullup, 
3 specifies that both a falling and rising edge will trigger a count with no pullup applied, 5 specifies both edges but with a pullup applied. 
If 'option' is omitted a rising edge will trigger the count. Due to a bug in the RP2350 chips pulldown is not recommended. 
The pins can be GP6, GP7, GP8 or GP9 (can be changed with OPTION COUNT). 
DOUT Digital output 'option' is not used in this mode. 
The functions PIN() and PORT() can also be used to return the value on one or more output pins. 
See the function PIN() for reading inputs and the statement PIN()= for setting an output. See the command below if an interrupt is configured.
