ALL VERSIONS
[>354] KEYPAD var, int, r1, r2, r3, r4, c1, c2, c3 [, c4] or KEYPAD CLOSE 
Monitor and decode key presses on a 4x3 or 4x4 keypad. Monitoring of the keypad is done in the background and the program will continue after this command without interruption. 
'var' should be a numeric variable and its value will be updated whenever a key press is detected. 
'int' is a user defined subroutine that will be called when a new key press is received. 
In the interrupt subroutine the program can examine the variable 'var' and take appropriate action. r1, r2, r3 and r4 are pin numbers used 
for the four row connections to the keypad and c1, c2, c3 and c4 are the column connections. c4 is optional and is only used with 4x4 keypads. 
This command will automatically configure these pins as required. On a key press the value assigned to 'var' is the number of a numeric key 
(e.g. '6' will return 6) or 10 for the * key and 11 for the # key. On 4x4 keypads the number 20 will be returned for A, 21 for B, 22 for C and 23 for D. 
The KEYPAD CLOSE command will terminate the keypad function and return the I/O pin to a not configured state. 

A keypad is a low tech but effective method of entering numeric data. The PicoMite firmware supports either a 4x3 keypad or a 4x4 keypad and the monitoring and decoding of key presses is done in the background. 
When a key press is detected an interrupt will be issued where the program can deal with it.
Examples of a 4x3 keypad and a 4x4 keypad are the Altronics S5381 and S5383 (go to www.altronics.com ).
To enable the keypad feature you use the command:
<CODE>
KEYPAD var, int, r1, r2, r3, r4, c1, c2, c3, c4
</CODE>

Where 'var' is a variable that will be updated with the key code and 'int' is the name of the interrupt subroutine to call when a new key press has been detected. 
'r1’, 'r2’, 'r3' and 'r4' are the pin numbers used for the four row connections to the keypad (see the diagram below) and 'c1’, 'c2’, 'c3' and 'c4' are the column connections. 
'c4' is only used with 4x4 keypads and should be omitted if you are using a 4x3 keypad.
Any I/O pins on the Raspberry Pi Pico can be used and you do not have to set them up beforehand, the KEYPAD command will automatically do that for you.

The detection and decoding of key presses is done in the background and the program will continue after this command without interruption. 
When a key press is detected the value of the variable var will be set to the number representing the key (this is the number inside the circles in the diagram above). 
Then the interrupt will be called.
For example:
<CODE>
Keypad KeyCode, KP_Int, GP2, GP3, GP4, GP5, GP6, GP7, GP8 ' 4x3 keybd
DO
< body of the program >
LOOP
SUB KP_Int ' a key press has been detected
PRINT "Key press = " KeyCode
END SUB
</CODE>
