PICOMITE VGA AND HDMI ONLY
[>265] DRAW3D CAMERA n, z_viewplane[,x_camera [,y_camera] [,PAN_X] [,PAN_Y]
The camera number 'n' and the 'viewplane' z distance are mandatory, all other parameters are optional and all default to 0 
The camera can be placed anywhere in the plane x, y, 0 but always looks out along the z axis. 
The viewplane is perpendicular to the Z axis and is a plane sized 65532 x 65532 in the x and y axis stretching, like the world from -32766 to 32766 in the x-axis and -32766 to 32766 in the y-axis 
However, our VGA display can only show a very small part of the viewplane as limited by the screen dimensions (MM.HRES x MM.VRES). 
We could call this the "viewport". By default the viewport will be set to +/- MM.HRES\2 either side of the camera x position and +/- MM.VRES either side of the camera y position.
This means If I place a 3D object at 0,0,Z in the 3D world and set my camera at 0,0,0 in the 3D world then the object will project into the centre of the screen.
Likewise, if I place a 3D object at 400,400,Z in the 3D world and set my camera at 400,400,0 in the 3D world then the object will also project into the centre of the screen.
However, there are occasions when this may not be what we want so there are two extra parameters to the CAMERA command - PAN-X and PAN-Y.
These move the position of the viewport on the viewplane relative to the camera position.
A practical example makes this clearer:

Suppose we position a number of objects in the 3D world with their lower extermities at x, 0, z. In other words they are all sitting on the ground.
To look at them we may want the camera somewhere above the ground so we are looking down on them. 
If the viewport is centred on the camera (the default) then all the objects will appear in the bottom half of the screen.
Now this may be exactly what we want but the firmware allows you to pan the viewport up and down and/or left and right relative to the camera.
So in our example we could pan the viewport down to better frame the image on the screen.
This does not change the perspective of the image, that is locked in by the relative positions of the object and the camera.
It merely allows us to frame the image better given our limited screen resolution 
